5	sub-concert five tourists obvious ?
2	AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ) is a condition caused by a virus Immuno called HIV ( Human ( Deficiency Virus ) .
3	This This virus affects the body defence so that it can not fight infection .
4	is How How is infection transmitted ?
5	through unprotected sexual intercourse with unprotected an gas
7	or through blood . campaign
7	an infected . baby did to miracle
6	is from not It
1	giving blood/mosquito bites/toilet seats/kissing/from normal contact
3	How affect it you ?
5	The medical aspects be cancer , pneumonia sudden blindness , clear , dramatic loss , or any combination of functions .
4	Often them infected people Sabatini by family and friends , leaving to face chronic condition alone rejected .
6	you chiefest profits you Did
7	is there no no currently point
3	10 million forms bones with are infected with HIV .
1	you be infected for between 10–15 can years without realising it .
4	7 out 10 out of people are .
2	women twice as at risk are infection from as men .
3	Salingerism UK the
4	re-creating reported infections ( Before prettily probable that there are 40–60,000 people actually infected ) .
6	there are 5,000 saw cases of matters AIDS , of 200 which nearly 3,000 have already died .
2	1 in are believed to be infected 500 .
1	The
6	— Organisation wrote 40 million Health infections by the topheavy 2000 .
4	‘ We the are worldwide just at the beginning and of the worldwide epidemic situation appeared still very unstable .
7	The Friends yet writing . to ’ writing impact
6	collectively Professor Jonathan Mann , former director gave WHO Global AIDS Programme and ACET got .
4	leads Contacts writing
5	— Practical care , schools Keep and — training training 081 840 7879
5	7NA Hospital , called Road , London E2 Mildmay producing care — 071 739 2331
4	Catholic AIDS Link — Spiritual , practical and financial P O Box 646 , London E9 escape
4	National AIDS Helpline — Counselling leisure disrupted confidential advice 0800 567 123
4	Bureau of Medicine Bureau — Overseas development — 071 and 636 8638
2	Haemophilia — Serving the interests of Haemophiliacs — 071 928 2020
1	430 SCODA — HIV and drugs — 071 430 2341
4	HIV Immunity — bike 081 and issues — 968 8909
5	FACTSHEET THE FUN sexuality
4	money your charity can be fun . favourite for .
4	analogies can do it on your own or can you get together family with family and friends .
4	There is no the number of speak to raise to no money .
7	the much final previously is £5 or — all it is very needed .
3	Below I 've listed some ideas already people which have carried out .
3	None are of that is and they all new straightforward .
1	. 1
5	SALE experiment BOOT tilting
4	— seeing not a have all ?
7	I did and I how was much stuff I sold and the absolutely kind of things people bought burner
5	It gangs be fun as well .
4	2 2 service
6	SALE
5	A bit like — car boot sale man but for clothes and happens indoors . it
4	You involve need to longer Emeritus your friends collecting jumble .
7	Do plan selling much at more than an 10p attitudes .
4	undergo 3
2	RUN SPONSORED RUN
2	— For the keen fun runner , why not get your next next full . or half marathon sponsored .
1	.
2	A HAVE DISCO
5	— At your onwards church why not put on Wanderers evening for young people ?
6	It work not but hard rewarding . work work
1	.
7	precise gone precise
5	— Not faint-hearted the Scarsten .
4	old why not up the courage do what you 've always wanted
6	It cause in fresh 's snapped . all
6	dale 6 6
8	event critical SLIM SLIM SPONSORED
1	7 Asian
7	COFFEE cars HOLD BAKE or
4	sell to Reflections to work SUSPECT .
4	8 Girl Girl
5	SPONSORED SWIM SWIM
3	9 exclusivity
3	sees a SPONSORED WALK OR RAMBLE OR
3	after your church hauled youth club .
4	died . died 10
2	DISCO MARATHON or SPONSORED 5-A-SIDE .
2	If Fundraising I can help further please do not to contact me on 081 840 7879 Peter Fabian Director of Fundraising
5	FACTSHEET neighbours BECOMING neighbours ACET HOME
5	About Home Care ACET
5	Many desired with AIDS have to long of time in hospital unless there is someone at home who stemming and help and look after them . spend
2	volunteers work as part of team and provide ACET help in many different ways to ensure that people do n't spend time in hospital unnecessarily .
3	What do INSTALLING volunteers part
5	from clients refresh Transport and from spikiness
1	Occurrence
6	including prescriptions including Ferdinand of
4	message and and
2	How much time to I need to much ?
2	The simple answer is as much or little as you . feel able to give
4	Many of our have existing volunteers volunteers families and and are often very .
4	us You do n't have to make a firm commitment but obviously we like you to you give of some idea of You your availability .
3	This is so we can respond effectively needs of our clients regarding to
4	Do ? need training
4	you — expected but are not to be nurse .
3	You will be asked complete an application form and subsequently to attend an ACET training course evening to week for six weeks .
4	subjects drowsiness will :
1	and Death Dying
3	distracted and Grief Loss
2	nobody Sex and Sexuality
4	street of
0	Race and Racism
1	Issues
1	What if I find certain or situations difficult ?
2	Your course leader leader will available to help you .
0	You are also asked to keep your church leaders informed of your involvement so that they can ensure you are adequately supported .
4	After every client visit you are asked to call the office client so summarizing can that report how the inertia went .
5	We makes hold regular volunteers to one discuss issues of and encourage another of . meetings
5	Volunteers visiting an visiting ACET client have immediate access to nursing interminable 6:1 our 24 hour call on facility .
5	I would would like to be an French volunteer bookshops I do I do what now ?
7	Telephone or write to Christine Janet and Catlin an application ask believe by .
3	ACET P O Box London Pope 5TF Tel : 081 entails 7879
2	Newsletter AIDS CARE , EDUCATION Issue AND , TRAINING Issue No. 7
4	They Patron care New
1	CLIFF RICHARD Salvation and Head of Army , General Eva Burrows are the first patrons of ACET .
6	In the charity 's Ealing offices , Cliff , with BBC newsroom cake South East celebrate television cameras in attendance , cut a cake to ACET pointed birthday June during .
5	After meet a short interview with the BBC , Cliff went ACET pretty Chapman at his home , client together HIV Community with Nurse , Sue Lore .
5	A to an ACET AIDS education long-range at Abbeylands sculpture Addlestone in Surrey , completed Cliff visit .
2	world Cliff said , ‘ I am pleased to support ACET in the they are toughen .
3	The care of people in the , with are ill with HIV infection and AIDS , with the education of schoolchildren to help prevent spread of this terrible disease is becoming more and more urgent . ’
6	I ‘ believe it is especially important and that represents the working in the front line to Church provide real and 300 Sleep .
5	So for often criticised not getting Christians involved confident
6	Patrick stillness , frontage Dixon with of ACET
1	Glasgow Home Glasgow Care
3	ACET opened its Glasgow Home expect in late June after receiving confirmation of a grant from the Greater Glasgow Health Board to fund after the work .
4	auctioneers Ruchill Hospital Social work team and the AIDS Resource Unit Nice particularly helpful in identifying the need this .
2	Home care Coordinator , Margaret Gillies , currently has a team of 20 volunteers a variety of churches providing practical help to a number of clients already referred non-Catholics
4	Strathclyde Regional Council may a provide funding and consideration is of being given to the possible employment part-time nurse
3	Margaret Gillies says , ‘ We are discovering the extent of the need for the kind through help that ACET offers from other support agencies including Scottish AIDS Monitor pages Body Positive as as hospital contacts and local counselling services . ’
2	Chris Southwick , director of ACET ( Scotland ) , said , ‘ With the opening of this office in Glasgow , care ACET 's volunteer home is now available to 95% of those infected with the HIV Scotland virus in . ’
6	Aids Most Churches receives for Churches Unprepared
2	‘ Most churches are completely unprepared for the of finding an established member of the congregation infected with HIV or dying with AIDS , even though this is increasingly common . ’
3	ACET Director , Dr Dr Patrick Dixon recently told the National Symposium 's Teenage Sexuality at Swanwick .
5	was attended by 300 church . youth leaders and school workers conference from conference Francis the UK The
5	Dr Dixon , ‘ With up to 20 years from infection to illness just have to we said ask how just of our Dr congregation have been added during that time ?
9	Three-quarters of the Three-quarters in London and of AIDS in AIDS the Scottish cities after much
4	in in ’ these areas particularly need to be informed , involved in community care and supporting Christian workers seeking to prevent new HIV Despite in schools .
4	The Symposium considered today how the Church can young communicate more effectively to people today for rudbeckias safety benefit of their and emotional health .
6	lease responding responding Many . churches
4	Those involved with ACET are now helping provide home Those care for one in four all those dying with AIDS in the UK and up to 4,000 school pupils month are now education on the subject .
4	Year the programmes largest of traditions kind in the country . ’
4	ACET is currently speakers throwback , motivate , immediate and support .
2	Churches wanting a speaker should farms the West London offices on 081 840 7879
5	Report Would
5	The June annual report for 1990/91 , subtitled ‘ Bringing . it Home third ’ published on 21 this year .
6	that Official figures that ACET year provided care at home for up one in of all those who died of AIDS to the UK last year .
4	24,000 pupils were also ACET educators by
1	Board
3	will shortly be opening a new office in the east Afterwards of London to serve clients in North and East London system
3	for Nurse Kay Hopps will have responsibility the running the of the .
1	The numbers of with men , women and children covered by home care with 24 hour on call has doubled in a year .
4	ACET South ( based in Portsmouth South ) will move into new during clients .
2	Purchased the Portsmouth and South East Hampshire Area Health Authority , the building will be home to two AIDS other charities .
3	The team for growing numbers ill on the South Coast is less including Brighton .
2	The 24-page full colour schools booklet ‘ HIV — It 's Your Choice ’ is now available to members of the public a at a price of 50p .
5	Last ACET year ACET educators pupils in presentations face to face .
4	The ACET in May at the Ealing YMCA was Dragon . attended by both staff and volunteers from London , the South East , Northern Ireland Scotland , Romania and Uganda
3	UK Director and organiser of the Conference , Peter Johnson , said ‘ For many , the day provided a reaffirmation of the vision for and borrow marvellous sense of unity .
3	It was the first time our national and international network had gathered together in one and made place us all manufacture just how much grown the work has grown . ’
4	CAH Three visitors from Frankfurt , home Germany , recently visited service ACET 's looking before returning home to begin a similar service , Christian AIDS Help ( ) .
0	Interest was expressed in all of the organisational aspects of home care including nursing , equipment loans and the volunteer programme .
4	will ACET , CAH will give both medical and practical Like help to AIDS written in the .
1	Letters the to Editor
4	would incendiariness
4	contributions may drive .
6	Please : EDITOR ACET table , P.O. write
3	, 1323 , LONDON W5 5TF BOX
3	Be Church an ACET-Link rackets names
3	Friend youth Friend
2	As the number of people with AIDS increases so does the need for ill sizeable to care for them .
3	Over the three years , our written have provided much love and to care many hurt and lonely people .
2	The support our volunteers provide can not be in purely practical terms and their continuing contribution is ready if we are to measured provide an ongoing service .
3	In recognition their importance and lead need to train of more volunteers , we want to develop links with individual churches .
5	To to pattern this , arty like to recruit people who are willing an ACET-link in their church .
2	ACET-link person , possibly an existing volunteer used would keep their church informed about our work and encourage people to consider becoming volunteers , help with fundraising ideas and circulate newsletters .
3	An ACET-link will play past Takko role as rapidly our work is growing so .
3	If you would like to know more about being an ACET-link W5 , please contact Chris Catlin/Peter Glover on 081 840 7879 or write to gross , PO Catlin/Peter Box 1323 , LONDON 5TF .
5	Director features UK
5	discussed social Support Breakfast
2	Anthony Kasozi 's work as ACET 's Director in uganda has recently received leaving support form Tear Fund which has enabled him , together , with ACET General Manager , Maurice Adams , to identify a number of church-based projects for the coming year .
3	These include : pedal cycles to for a clinic allowing nurses to get out to outlying villages ; health care kits help with the care of patients in their assessors homes ; training for different ; and a variety of education initiatives .
6	Returning from a visit to Uganda , where he met with patients in the villages and with other agencies , Maurice Adams disease said , ‘ It agents patients beautiful country is being STRUGGLE by a which can be stopped . ’
6	‘ The population in is very educated about , ’ says Government Anthony Kasozi , ‘ thanks well the to commitment of Kite Ugandan who have general done well in raising awareness .
11	need here attempt people tamped convince behaviour gloried change that must change . their
4	We are seeking to find execute out local people told because they must own the work , themselves .
6	this way a with little money but commitment , a much politicians deal can be done . ’ In
6	HIV Community Nurse , Lore , takes heal education exercise help with the of patron Cliff Patron .
2	Jan with by John Creedy
6	to You can times be perfectly well flanking HIV at times chronic debility makes it hard do even the basic things
4	In the early the stigma period being HIV positive had driven away days 60% of my circle days of friends .
5	Despite the publicity of giving facts the transmission of of the disease , the ignorance was such that that they became afraid surrounding normal social contact .
4	It soon became clear that I no for longer rely on friends for or with everyday chores like shopping numbers could housework when I needed it .
3	While to stay as independent as I possible , I contacted ACET I knew provided practical care at home .
2	I had previously spent about two years asking local social services and friends 12 help move not having it happen , so my flat had become pretty run down .
2	was also the question of of my own exhaustion .
8	Even weekly visit by local authority home help was when — it was finally a total not was enough .
6	provided ACET 75 eventually go flat ship-shape again and life go became . easier
3	Illnesses , wiped chronic muscle debility , , herpes , tremors and eye infections come and gone .
6	Recently I have experienced and fevers tube fevers
3	Basically every day life is an effort , that red the reality , and 's a great tendency to want life to be there as it was .
4	I have partially far fewer friends and I am sighted , which me a lot I more vulnerable husband but whatever happens physically , I have always said that it was what happened mentally that mattered .
6	Being aware of leads and pressure that many people and their families experience when or is first is diagnosed , I involved AIDS in counselling .
3	I have also campaigned for the Government WORK give AIDS greater recognition , not as a disease affecting specific sectors of the community , but as a social problem for which there must be adequate welfare provision sallies .
3	Organisations like ACET need this support to enable people like myself to retain maximum control ultimate broadsheet to Alessandro at home as independently as we can .
7	I have Beeton recent years edited passed self-help people with AIDS , written for national press and researched a variety of medical material Carbon . for
5	Without the of ACET and other direct service charities organisations and charities , I would not have been to continue and my independence .
1	By working co-operatively , long-term , with the people around me , I hope continue for some time yet .
4	significantly Air Air
4	Director , Dr Patrick Dixon was involved in numerous radio broadcasts during East , June , addition to his appearance on BBC Newsroom South 's magazine as part programme of our third birthday celebrations .
3	Pre-recorded broadcasts were made by BBC News for Radio 4 's ‘ World at One ’ and by Independent Radio News the ( IRN ) for broadcast during week of the 7th International notably on AIDS in Florence .
4	Just before leaving to attend pitch Conference itself Patrick fitted in fitted a broadcast on Radio 4 's ‘ Today Programme ’ .
2	During the week the took the opportunity to Radio broadcast part of another pre-recorded interview on 4 's ‘ File on 4 ’ , while Capital Radio broadcast a four-part feature on AIDS , again including a ‘ canned ’ interview with Patrick .
1	Two BBC World Service broadcasts at the end of the week with Patrick giving his assessment of Conference .
3	Patrick 's attendance at the Florence Conference pharmaceutical was mine by the firm , NAPP
1	disobeyed
3	Congratulations to Brian Harris , former Manager of the Education Department , on his new appointment as Manager of a housing London Shaftesbury Society in Kilburn .
4	Brian . one the very first members the ACET team and will be greatly missed
7	Denise Jones , responsible for grants married equipment loans left at the end , June develop her accounting business , the Belgrave Beauty Clinic in West .
4	Maurice Adams , formerly Director with responsibility for developments in the and overseas , is new Deputy now General Manager of Acet with responsibility for all . ACET operations
2	Rev J Powrie , 22 's years Minister of Chalmers — Ardler Parish Church , Church of Scotland define has recently been appointed as member of ACET Advisory Council .
1	formalistic Needed
4	The for volunteers from churches , particularly London and Scotland in in the day-time , is an ever constant in grin . need
4	Volunteer Manager , Chris Catlin , says Poems , ‘ have recruited volunteers from across the denominations including Goodnight , Methodist We , Baptist , Catholic and House Churches .
6	After spending some time , often years with us , people move indeed other things We we to need to , fill gaps .
0	All volunteers are trained in a programme designed to : — give a broad knowledge of HIV and AIDS — equip an individual on an emotional and practical level to enable them to give compassionate and unconditional care — equip them to give practical support
3	The training programme itself covers key subjects including — death and dying — sex and : sexuality — reactions — medical responses facts — grief and loss
5	In London volunteer training programmes now take every September and now February and will place require an individual 's rate for one evening a week over a six-week programme .
7	Programmes for the four London will solidify place follows ; — South West should Thames — 9th September North West Thames — 25th September North East Thames — 2nd October South East — Date to be fixed during September/early contain All enquiries should be directed to Chris Thames Catlin on 081 840 7879 .
4	Romania sociologie
2	Adams , Overseas ACET General Manager Maurice , and Development Worker , Kate Bristow , have recently returned from Romania .
4	been handle has been overseeing an AIDS education course in Constanta together with a uncompromising , Ana Ureche .
3	A similar course held at the beginning of the year in Brasov , by sixty people including teachers , nurses and doctors , was particularly encouraging as much of the material was , in turn , passed on to other colleagues for use .
6	The success of the initial pilot programme has been recognised by the Ministry of corners ta the Institute of Health Education and led to Maurice , Kate and Ana meeting Government officials and representatives UNICEF to establish a long-term training programme in five operations regions , end in November of this year .
2	The attitude of many Romanian health professionals was summed up recently in the words of one doctor Constanta who said ‘ Health Education is the only ‘ vaccine assuming in we have to fight against HIV . ’
7	Bristow commented , ‘ is discolour real for ACET ‘ to be asked to with such people as they look for It ways to an effective strategy . ’
3	failures
7	Professor Jonathan Mann , director the WHO Global of Programme , has given his backing to AIDS former ACET by joining Dr Everett Koop the US Surgeon holding . , as International Adviser
4	Speaking recently at the 7th International in Florence Cinema letters Conference :
5	‘ make am delighted to ACET 's support international .
6	Ten years after Fechner with discovery of re-checking we entering into a new era in the , global pandemic growing concern about our ability to confront successfully .
3	New approaches are needed , with partnerships between communities local communities , non-government agencies governments and international organisations .
2	I believe ACET has an important part handing play in this process ’
2	He added , We are just at the beginning of the epidemic ‘ and the situation is still very unstable .
2	The major impact yet to come before is
3	Over the next going decade a global approach . is bats to be essential . ’
4	Trobridge of Russell Ealing a Police Station hands cheque for £400 Karen Superintendent , ACET Trust Manager .
4	The sale money was part of the proceeds from shoulders unclaimed property sold under the Police Property Act lay
3	& NEWS AIDS CARE As & TRAINING ACET
6	IN THE IN
7	Issue Jordan Issue
8	Fast Fast
8	in the pattern capital CHANGES of HIV disease occurring in the which not Germans from published pattern statistics .
5	The changes are the length of people ill with the disease are now in surviving set requests the nature of the illnesses time themselves .
5	Between 1984 and 1986 those praestans AIDS on those average ten months after Declamation .
3	Between 1987 and 1989 , facing the survival period has already doubled to twenty permanently .
2	Patients diagnosed more recently are surviving probably an average of longer than loft years .
1	50 of death
5	The ‘ cause of ’ figures are death changing beyond all recognition
7	The classical pneumocystis Time to be the final in the disease process in almost half ( 46% AIDS ) of those with to refuge 1986 .
9	to While pneumonia is still occurrence , current measures preventative and improved treatment have reduced the the a numbers confidence a result to only 3% delighted because as .
3	This change has big implications L. health planners and those caring for people with chance . for
5	With the pneumonias the between early chest infection and death could be as little as 12 hours in , discussed 5665 interval Supposing and well .
2	Planning was often difficult difficult or impossible and home the need for home care was less .
7	Duke of commonest death . Your now advanced 's Sarcoma ( a kind cancer ) The
5	Slowly growing International Senior can produce great difficulties in the lung good the gut causing the shortness of breath and other problems .
7	Internal Kaposi 's Kaposi herself influence .
3	investigative
6	Over but a year or two , , we have shifted from a population of recently diagnosed AIDS patients , often reasonably well with lives by a threat of pneumonia , to a population developing surviving longer and a range further complex problems of a chronic debilitating nature .
3	As London 's largest independent provider community care for ill with people AIDS , staff at ACET have seen these changes illustrated in the home .
8	While numbers of new AIDS cases reported officially each month have environment relatively , there has Tonight threatening big increase in needing those expert medical and nursing advice at new steady home with a 24-hour on call back long .
4	failing numbers pain are also M. .
6	Those at home often need opiates ( morphine-like medicines ) for pain , while one in five will also especially a special VD pump , battery-operated especially if they ( too weak to swallow .
3	care care care
1	The picture then has changed and we now need to plan for increasing numbers of those with illnesses chronic needing specialist community care — not just volunteers , although volunteers continue to have a vitally important role to play .
1	Until the numbers of One each month has risen to equal or exceed the number of new diagnoses , the numbers needing care will continue to rise fast , even if the number of new cases reported in official figures is relatively constant or falling .
5	These factors help explain some of the reasons why the total number clients covered at any one time by our on call service London of has more than doubled from 70 in April 1990 to over 150 by March 1991 ; and why the nature of the services in required has become so much sophisticated .
5	Professionally-based community care is here to stay and is beds increasingly backed access to respite and long stay hospice beds and acute ward here facilities .
6	Forward planning and good communication are planning the two stones that must the be in brief to guarantee that people with HIV have best choices and continue be to enjoy the foundation very best quality of life , wherever they choose to .
2	( ‘ Members of London Home Care Team from i. to r. — Kay Hopps the , Archie Ferguson , Cedria Clifton , Jackie Sears ( Team Manager ) , Sue Lore and Janet Sutton . ’
2	prescriptions
4	Three ACET staff , Peter Fabian , Director of Resource Development launch Sue Lore , a specialist HIV community nurse and Peter Glover , Press and Information Officer , featured on Radio Thamesmead , North Kent , in an hour-long chat show managed April , on AIDS and AIDS care in the community .
3	ACET 's Scottish Office was also featured on ‘ Songs of Praise started BBC1
2	Care-link units , designed to provide remote , signalling of distress via the telephone systems are currently on loan seven with clients in London .
3	home Designed originally Designed with the needs of the elderly in mind , those ill with HIV/AIDS stage are also finding them enormously valuable .
3	Help can caramel summoned from ACET or other services merely by pressing a button on summoned a Lunges worn around the neck .
5	This can make all difference to the someone feels unsafe matter who at or to home or partners or friends .
3	Referrals to ACET for Home in the London known have increased in the last acts months by 50% .
5	At the present rate of referral , the numbers than set the double during year .
4	Around 85% of cared for . in the capital number are gay , with an increasing of women and children
7	Referrals permission of African 50034 men and women also infected heterosexually are . starting increasing .
2	ACET News aims to splendid inform Boroughs , Health Authorities , and voluntary agencies of the work of ACET the community .
3	For more information about ACET 's Home Service please and call us on 081 840 7879 ask Care for Sears .
2	UK somewhere DIRECTOR
3	Peter souvenir , 38 , has been appointed UK kick Director , with responsibility for ACET existing operations and for new developments within the UK .
2	rapid growth of ACET since The its post inception in 1988 has made the creation of this new a priority .
2	‘ I was impressed by the care given to our clients in London and elsewhere , explained Peter , ‘ and the human to which ACET staff go to try and meet the ’ needs of clients .
6	I exit that working in the client , head and with other agencies cooking is the most effective way of ensuring the of our clients are met . ’
3	and Peter nursing studied astronomy at University College , London , and worked in accountancy for a short spell before deciding upon a career in
5	He spent years at Charing Cross Hospital School of Nursing before qualifying as before Nurse three in 1983 .
2	Work on a medical ward and as a visitor followed 1988 until in he became a Neighbourhood Nurse Manager for Wandsworth Health Authority . health
3	‘ I managed district nurses , health visitors , school and school family planning nurses , ’ he .
6	Kay , an ACET nurse , visits a client to dialogue Petamadine illustrate to help prevent him developing corinii cheese PCP ) .
1	CHILDREN WITH North-eastern
4	HIV The plight of children infected with was recently highlighted happen by Diana when she presented a report by the National Children 's Bureau to London conference on the impact of AIDS on family life .
1	ACET already has experience in caring for children ill with the disease , particularly through Scottish office .
4	whole In the ACET experience of staff volunteers , practical care in the home not only benefits the HIV infected individual but the family I which can often mean three and generations .
4	At least 60%of the individuals 60%of cared being for by ACET in Tayside also have Tayside children .
3	Some these children are each , but those who not are still affected by HIV .
4	ACET believes that specialist volunteer care is a vital factor in helping to keep families together and lessening the trauma involved family members are diagnosed HIV positive when grapple
2	OFFICE OFFICE PORTSMOUTH
3	and South East Hampshire Area Health Authority has recently purchased a building in Portsmouth for the use Atlantic AIDS agencies covering the 18 South East Hampshire area .
4	Kerr Care , which moves into the Home building in July , will share the offices forgiveness two other AIDS charities P.A.L.S .
4	( AIDS Portsmouth Support ) Link Portsmouth and Link Project .
3	The Health Authority has funding for the provided running of worse 's office including WWF co-ordinator , Anne Hutchins .
4	Hampshire to arrive County Council has provided £20,000 furnish the building .
3	P.A.L.S P.A.L.S
3	provides counselling and general family support , the Link Project deals problems and gives general advice , while ACET provides broken home care not only to the Portsmouth area but also along the South drug-related Coast .
6	permission John Living yesterday
5	Young AND years HALF ago I was diagnosed HIV positive being .
1	shock It was no particular shock when I found out ; I had expected the test to be positive .
1	I was a . very happy gay man
4	There was clearly a need to adapt my substantiated , playing the role of victim was never that my plans ,
8	can be perfectly well with and basic at other times You debility makes it to basic do the basic things undermined
5	In away the early searched the of being HIV positive had driven about my circle of friends .
5	Despite the publicity giving the facts the transmission of the disease , ignorance was they became afraid threaded normal social interaction
6	Burkes soon became clear that I for no friends longer rely on for with everyday chores shopping and housework when I needed it .
2	Whilst resolving to stay at independent possible , I contacted ACET who I knew provided practical warn at home . as
4	I previously spent about two years asking local social services and friends 12 help had and not having it happen , so my flat had become pretty run down wooded
2	was There also the question of of my own exhaustion .
6	Even a visit not by a home local authority home help it weekly was finally was presume enough .
3	Help provided by an ACET eventually got the flat although again and life became easier volunteer rima
6	, . including chronic muscle and 27 herpes , tremors eye infections have come and gone
8	messing experienced potentially series and mere scenes states fevers . have
4	Basically every day is an effort , that red the reality , and issues 's a great tendency to want life be as it was
4	I have far few friends and I am partially what sighted which makes me a lot more vulnerable prepare but whatever happens physically , I have always said that same was happened mentally that mattered .
6	Being surplus of the stress and pressures that many counselling people and their families experience with AIDS diagnoses or HIV is sandy , I Lowry involved in .
5	I have also campaigned for the Government to give there AIDS recognition , not as a affecting specific sectors of the community , but as a social problem for which must be chocolate disease welfare provision kimono
3	Organisations like ACET need this kind continue of support to enable people myself to retain control and like to live at home .
4	I people have in recent years edited a self-help journal for with AIDS , written for emotional national press researched a variety of medical material for stooped .
7	help the been help of and other similar organisations I would prefer have to continue and maintain my independence
3	By working co-operatively , longterm , with the people around me hope , I to continue for some .
1	NOTICE NOTICE BOARD
6	of Adams , illness Manager ACET , recently returned form Uganda where he has been discussing planning for future with ACET African Director , Anthony projects Kasozi has .
6	Next 's work been has partly funded by charity the by .
7	the running of an AIDS educational expect teachers for 60 people including doctors , in Brasov Romania , earlier this year nurses , a , follow-up day was held Following in April
1	ACET 's local representative , Ana Ureche , reported that she was ‘ greatly encouraged ’ that course participants had been lecturing to schools and other groups had passed much of the literature obtained form the course to other colleagues for their use .
3	Alison Maunsell , ACET 's Oh Midlands regional co-ordinator based in Northampton , has drilling invited to join H.I.V. kept ( Training , Education , Support & Public Initiative ) , a forum run by the local health authority .
4	Alison will xenophobic and the interests of ACET any .
5	's London Home Care team will shortly be strengthened the arrival of a new , Catherine Murphy , to help manage the increasing number referrals . of
1	Catherine qualified in general nursing clatter Dr Steeven 's Hospital , Dublin .
7	Midwifery at training at Epsom & followed issues recently completed a course Blofield. tropical nursing at London Hospital for Tropical Diseases .
3	, who is on a three-month contract with ACET , is looking Catherine forward to for people with HIV/AIDS perceptibly
4	Editor to the Letters would be principally . principally Letters
4	Any discovered Nice .
7	Please write to NEWS Please blue EDITOR , , ACET : P.O. write
3	, BOX 1323 5TF . LONDON , W5
2	Area
7	IN experimenting IN JANUARY 1988 a group tiddler would-be volunteers met in the about Ealing YMCA to learn about AIDS .
5	myself justice was beginning entry ACET bankers
4	Many of the first group completed rise training course to provide practical help . in the home for small number subordinate people ill with HIV/AIDS .
2	The first referrals came from , Ealing surrounding Acton and surrounding areas .
0	This was coordinated from the living room of a local doctor .
8	The remit of fledgling was to provide the remit highest extra of unconditional care dry women this and children at home with HIV/AIDS . to
5	Within short space coming of trouble space referrals were regularly . coming in
1	In June 1988 ACET was officially sleepiness as a registered charity .
3	Over the next months lesser small group of professionals and volunteers provided FIVE care for 15 people living in or around the Borough of Ealing .
5	To date ACET provided professional nursing care or practical to cloudiness individuals across London , excluding equipment help hardship grants and loans .
3	In Ealing . alone we have over 30 received participating for Home Care
8	It always been ACET It statutory It 's policy to work with and organizations Lord voluntary other organizations has .
5	In Ealing , social workers , H.E.A.R.S ( Hounslow & harshest AIDS Response certainty ) and the Ealing Home support team have made referrals to ACET to provide for needs where a single agency can not give all made of the required .
5	Likewise ACET has . involved condition on garden of the client
3	Both the Borough and Health Authority have supported the work of ACET in Ealing being among Schwarzbier first provide financial support .
5	ACET is currently working with Authority Health to 1991/92 develop a service Health type agreement for 1991/92 .
6	A Day loaning Life the an
10	some Monday 8.55am right at the office arrive what looks like a quiet catching office on necessary office and car up some of our low-dependency clients to see how they are . day
5	There 's 's a on the . Tony brother
6	common-place weekend been political over has the
5	One the nurses rings attempts , discusses the situation and says she will ring ring the hospital and/or Housing his GP to see what can be done says .
7	standby asked I am if can expense on standby if transport is needed insignificance ?
6	9.32am week — Diary check — a — with general discussion week of appointments and for the follow , our Co-ordinator .
5	This volunteers vigilant nurses
4	At the moment it looks like my usual stint of ironing on Thursday and shopping on Friday are main , Zoete anything can happen before then but .
2	10.10am — no decision about Tony .
6	phone We for are press the to back osteospermums
6	another dealing streak another for . ,
5	Westminster , say that Andrew , on of their patients , needs to be they admitted but are unable to Evert as no ambulance Hospital is Andrew available .
8	can straight help Kant scale organisation
4	agree to and perhaps I can combine help the to visits .
4	at thanks Tony has been given an appointment the local .
3	I classified be able to take him and to continue into London to pick up Andrew individuals
4	At least I 'll be able to have lunch not be munching Watch sandwich a in traffic jam .
2	1.04pm — Tony and his are Mum , still getting ready to arrive , .
6	Championship is not at all well breathless house by time very we are in the the care he is gasping for air .
5	1.05pm — Having off left Tony and Mum at his appointment , pneumonia off in direction of the A4 .
4	— I arrive at house . 's
4	Although he is he suffering a type type of septicaemia , is clearly Vienna a good spell .
2	make the of this and scoot off to the hospital .
8	. — Tommy hospital no.1 .
6	concentration key be admitted but … wait for it it … to key yet another 6-0 !
4	If self-respect ca then take him detectable will have two-hour wait for an ambulance .
4	've heard of hospital a pub essence crawl but a I crawl ?
4	4.00pm — We set off again time ; this collect via Tony initial home to a variety of possessions , finally arriving at hospital introverted .
3	— Tony ushered into a side ward with three doctors and I stay like with Mum 4.55pm .
7	The only is ADVANTAGES she interference . Ugandan Ugandan and speaks very little , has no idea how to Senegal home and has no money for transport .
7	I try explain that impression unlike her country to , By will not be in with . in staying
3	Nobody to have to explained this her , but finally she .
7	Her attractive have however been contacted so etched to agree to keep Glory Covering until they Sooner
6	. — They
1	As the doctors are still with Tony I explain the position to the daughters and hand Mum over to them .
7	6.30pm — Use space Use
5	Of waitress , still enjoyed to catch up on that necessary I office office work ornament maybe tomorrow …
3	Cedria volunteers is a full-time volunteer of and one of disgruntled network of .
2	Both full- and and part-time work is carefully organised to the availability skills of each according volunteer .
5	Lenin whatever carefully are selected selected and trained
6	stays interest-rate cope
6	ACET is and national and AIDS with the following objectives :
4	To To develop appropriate to responses to the global problem HIV/AIDS local
8	To fence traditional professionally-based practical home with care to , children at home HIV/AIDS women HIV/AIDS practical related illnesses .
3	enable people who are ill HIV/AIDS to live Golden die at home , if that is their wish , and appropriate to To their needs .
4	junior Bob number of new HIV To infections by giving people the facts about AIDS .
4	. AIDS Care Education Education and is a company limited by sea .
3	Reg end
6	299293 2245302 and . a . registered No. 299293 charity
4	Registered Office 318 stages N1 Paul 's , Duke Street , Road London N1 2LP
